Dark Souls III[a] is a 2016 action role-playing video game developed by FromSoftware and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Microsoft Windows. It is the fourth overall entry of the Souls series and the final installment of the Dark Souls trilogy.

It is an action role-playing game played in a third-person perspective. Players have access to various weapons, armour, magic, and consumables that they can use to fight their enemies. Bonfires serve as checkpoints. The Estus Flask is the consumable used for healing in Dark Souls III. Ashen Estus Flasks restore focus points (FP), which can be used for magic or weapon arts. Hidetaka Miyazaki, the creator of the series, returned to direct the game after handing the development duties of Dark Souls II to others in FromSoftware

Dark Souls III was critically and commercially successful, with critics calling it a worthy and fitting conclusion to the series. It was the fastest-selling game in Bandai Namco's history, shipping over three million copies within its first two months and over 10 million by 2020. Two downloadable content (DLC) expansions, Ashes of Ariandel and The Ringed City, were also made. A complete version containing the base game and both expansions, Dark Souls III: The Fire Fades, was released in April 2017.

Dark Souls III is an action role-playing game played in a third-person perspective, similar to previous games in the series. According to lead director and series creator Hidetaka Miyazaki, the game's gameplay design followed "closely from Dark Souls II".[1] Players are equipped with various weapons to fight against enemies, such as bows, throwable projectiles, and swords. Shields can act as secondary weapons, but they are mainly used to deflect enemies' attacks and protect the player from suffering damage.[2] Each weapon has two basic types of attack, one being a standard attack and the other being slightly more powerful that can be charged up, similar to FromSoftware's previous game, Bloodborne. In addition, attacks can be evaded through dodge-rolling.[3] Bonfires, which serve as checkpoints, return from previous instalments.[4] Ashes, according to Miyazaki, play an important role in the game.[5] Magic is featured in the game, with a returning magic system from Demon's Souls, now known as "focus points" (FP). When performing spells, the player's focus points are consumed. There are two types of Estus Flasks in the game, which can be allotted to fit a players' particular play style. One refills hit points like previous games in the series, while the other refills focus points, a feature new to the game.[6] Combat and movements were made faster and more fluid than Dark Souls II.[7][8] Several player movements are performed more rapidly, allowing more damage to be done in a shorter period.[9][3]