The group forms the Phantom Thieves of Hearts, stealing corruption from the hearts of adults to reform the city, slowly learning of a wider conspiracy to influence the hearts of Tokyo. They are joined along the way by Yusuke Kitagawa, whom they help to reform his corrupt teacher Madarame; Sae's sister Makoto, who is initially assigned to spy on them but joins after being blackmailed by criminal boss Kaneshiro; Sojiro's adopted daughter Futaba, who sunk into a depressed state after the conspiracy murdered her mother and redirected the blame to her using a forged suicide note; and Haru Okumura, who rebels against her billionaire father's attempts to control her life and his mistreatment of his employees. As the number of the Phantom Thieves' members and successes grows, they attract the attention of the public and the police, including Sae and Akechi. The Phantom Thieves' popularity plummets after they are framed for killing Haru's father by a black-masked assassin, who was mentioned by other targets. Pursuing the conspiracy, the group is joined by Akechi who convinces them to change Sae's heart.

After infiltrating Sae's Palace, Joker is captured by the police. Akechi is revealed to be the assassin and attempts to kill Joker, but the Phantom Thieves have already discovered his treachery and use the Metaverse to fake Joker's death. Aided by Sae and Sojiro, the Phantom Thieves go undercover and deduce the conspiracy's leader to be politician Masayoshi Shido, who has been using Akechi's ability to infiltrate the Metaverse to remove obstacles from his path toward becoming Prime Minister and imposing his reforms on Japan, as well as being the one who framed and pressed charges against Joker. When the Phantom Thieves infiltrate Shido's Palace, they face Akechi, who reveals himself to be Shido's illegitimate son and plans to get revenge on Shido. Once defeated, Akechi sacrifices himself to protect the Phantom Thieves from a group of enemies, allowing them to ultimately defeat Shido. Despite Shido's arrest and confession, the public's opinion of him remains largely unchanged and Shido may be released through the manipulation of his allies. The Phantom Thieves make a final heist to infiltrate the depths of Mementos, the Palace of everyone's hearts, to steal the Treasure at its core. Inside, they discover that the public is in chaos and has chosen to give up their autonomy.