Royal
In Persona 5 Royal, two new characters interact with the Phantom Thieves: Kasumi Yoshizawa, an accomplished rhythmic gymnast who transferred to Shujin at the same time as Joker, and Takuto Maruki, a school counselor hired after Kamoshida is exposed. Kasumi awakens to her Persona after calling Joker to a new Palace in Odaiba. Maruki, in turn, talks to each of the Phantom Thieves, learning their deepest wishes. After defeating Yaldabaoth, a still-living Akechi turns himself over to Sae in Joker's place. At the beginning of the following year, Joker finds reality distorted; Akechi was released without reason, and each Phantom Thief has had their deepest wish granted. Joker, Akechi, and Kasumi investigate the Palace in Odaiba and learn that its owner is Maruki, who is also a Persona-user and able to alter reality. Using Yaldabaoth's leftover power, Maruki gained control over Mementos, determined to create a world where everyone's dreams become reality. Maruki reveals that "Kasumi" is actually her twin sister Sumire, who has been impersonating her to cope with her death, and gives Joker time to choose whether to accept his idealized reality. Joker reminds the Phantom Thieves and Sumire of their real lives, and they agree to change Maruki's heart.

Joker learns from Maruki that Akechi is only alive in the altered reality due to Joker's desire to save him and that whether he continues to live depends on Joker accepting Maruki's world. Joker refuses his offer, and the Phantom Thieves defeat Maruki the following day. Reality returns to normal, and with Akechi missing, Joker finds himself back in prison, but as with the original game's story he is cleared and released. At their final meeting, having reflected on their rejection of Maruki's reality, each member of the Phantom Thieves chooses to pursue their own future. On the day he is due to return home, Joker escapes tailing government agents with help from both the Phantom Thieves and a reformed Maruki, who is now a taxi driver. At the station, Sumire finds him and bids him farewell. A post-credits scene achieved through certain game play requirements shows a person resembling Akechi passing by the window on Joker's train ride home.